# HDV and Luminaire Data Processing

This repository contains different examples of how to use HDVs (*hyperdimensional vectors*).

It also includes various data processing scripts for handling data sent by Zemper luminaires based on Wirepas technology.

## aux_scripts

Contains scripts that perform different tasks such as cleaning data, generating intermediate results, etc.

### borrar.py

Script to delete lines from a file until a specific keyword is found.

### calcB.py

Script to calculate the different values that **b** can take when varying **M**.

### range.py

Script used to obtain the maximum and minimum values that different variables can take within a JSON file.

### merge_json.py

Script to merge the json data of diagnosis with the json data of status

### genSyntheticData.json

Script to generate synthetic data

## examples

This directory contains various examples where HDVs are implemented to solve different problems.

### hdvColors.py

This example proposes the use of HDVs to classify and recognize colors.

### hdvRecipes.py

This example proposes the use of HDVs to encode recipes and obtain the following results:

- Given a recipe, determine which recipe in the dataset it most closely resembles.
- Given a recipe, determine which country it might belong to.

### hdvProteins.py

This example proposes the use of HDVs to encode and classify proteins depending on whether they are of human origin or come from yeast.

## data

This directory contains the different datasets used in the HDV examples.

- `recipesData.csv` is used in the `hdvRecipes.py` example.  
- `human.fasta` is used in the `hdvProteins.py` example.  
- `yeast.fasta` is used in the `hdvProteins.py` example.

## lum_data_processors

This directory contains the various scripts used for processing data sent by luminaires.

### correlation_matrix.py

This script takes a JSON file containing data sent by luminaires and computes the correlation between the different variables.

### extract_normality.py

This script processes the JSON file generated by `correlation_matrix.py` with the goal of, given an interval, producing another JSON file containing the variables that have a strong relationship (i.e., whose correlation value lies within the given range) and identifying how often similar values occur.

### json_processor.py

Auxiliary script for processing JSON files that contain data sent by luminaires.

### lum_processor.py

This script filters JSON files containing data sent by luminaires. It outputs another JSON file that contains only the desired variables.

### timestamp.py

This script calculates the time difference between transmissions from a luminaire. It takes as input a time period which, if exceeded, will be considered an anomaly and displayed on screen.

### hdvLum.py

Main HDC script able to create prototypical hdv's and to classify the given data samples

### hdvLumOpt.py

Main HDC script similar to the `hdvLum.py` script but implements ByteHD

#### lum_processor_filters

This directory contains the filters used by the different scripts.

- `lum_data_filter.txt` is an example of a filter file used by `lum_processor.py`.

## raspberry_pi_pico_2

This directory contains the scripts and code that implements HDC in the Raspberry Pi Pico 2

## synthetic_data

This directory contains `.json` files with synthetic luminaire data entries for performing different tests.


